# Wonderkids of the week 2025:

Every week, I will choose a young player in the football scene to
highlight based on their performance in that week. I will try and
highlight different players from different leagues, positions, and
countries.

#### Last update: May 25th, 2025

## Week of May 19th to May 25th: Brajan Gruda: Attacker, Brighton

![](Pro%20Soccer%20Games/Wonderkids/Brajan%20Gruda.jpeg)

#### Stats: 73 minutes, 1 assist, 5 chances created, 1 BCM, 2 Shots on target, 4 recoveries, 4/5 duels won

Brajan Gruda played an instrumental role in Brighton’s 3-2 win vs
premier league champions Liverpool on Monday, May 19th. The German was
involved in nearly everything positive about their attack and linkup
play. Gruda usually lines up as a right winger for the Seagulls but
today he was deployed in a much more central position that appeared to
suit him quite well. He has the technical elegance to turn and looks
right at home in the tight spaces between the lines. His dribbling
created space for teammates and drew in defenders that did not want any
part of trying to tackle him. The 20 year old came over from Mainz last
summer and has been on the fringes of the squad, often being used as a
substitute, but is maybe finding his groove here as the season winds
down. He is most certainly a player to watch out for next season.

![](Pro%20Soccer%20Games/Wonderkids/Gruda.png)

Gruda’s stats are based on a sample size of only 611 minutes, so it’s
important to take them with a grain of salt. He’s accumulated these
stats over the course of 21 games this season, with a lot of those being
substitute appearances with limited minutes That being said, he
currently ranks quite well in assists per 90, tackles per 90, and shot
creating actions per 90, which is understandable watching him play.
Usually deployed off the right wing, Gruda is one of those players who
glides with with the ball, looking to come inside onto his favored left
foot. However, he often begins to come inside further back and attack
the half space to create for his team, rather than a more traditional
winger looking to cut in and shoot near the box. That being said, he is
not afraid to use his right foot and drive the defense back. I
personally love his skill set in the middle of the pitch as a 10. He’s
very comfortable on the turn and he’s great a manipulating passing lanes
and pulling the strings in attack, exactly what he did against
Liverpool. his assist was nothing short of brilliant, a quick-thinking
one touch pass over the top of the defense which was turned home by
Yasin Ayari.

<center>
![](Gruda%20A.gif)
</center>

He also showcased his ability in tight spaces, turning and attacking the
defense on his way to 5 chances created for his team. As mentioned
before, Gruda’s first season on the south coast of England was a bit
underwhelming as a whole, but at only 20 years old, he’s got plenty of
time to nail down a place in Brighton’s crowded team, especially as they
may lose some players in the summer. Make sure to watch for Brajan Gruda
next season as he may just be Brighton’s next gem.

<center>
![](Gruda%20B.gif)
</center>
